.TH CHANGETRACK 1 "" "" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
changetrack \- track changes to configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B changetrack
[-h] [\-c configfile] [\-d directory] [-e] [-r] [-q] [\-m message] [\-M message] [-v] [-u] [\-o emailaddress]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B changetrack
is a program to monitor changes to a bunch of files. If files are  
modify one day, and the machine starts working incorrectly some days later,
.B changetrack
can provide information on which files were modified, and help locate
the problem. 
.PP
Normally
.B changetrack
uses
.B rcs
to keep track of various revisions of the files. Each file is "installed"
in the 
.B rcs
system the first time that
.B changetrack
is run after that file is added to the config file. Whenever 
.B changetrack
is run after that, a copy of the file is made, which is 'checked in'
and implicitly 'checked out' of the 
.B rcs
system. See the man page of 
.B co
for information on retrieving an old version of the file.
.PP
Backup files (ending in tilde ~) are ignored, unless explicitely included.
.PP
After each pattern in the file list, adding white space, a colon (:) then
more whitespace, followed by email addresses, separated by more whitespace,
will result in the changes to that file being emailed to that address. All
changes from each run are expressed in one email. Using the email feature
requires Mail::SendMail to be installed; if it does not work correctly, an
error message will be printed to standard error.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Display a short help message then exit.
.TP
.BI \-c "configfile"
Get the list of files to track from
.I configfile
instead of from ~/.changetrackrc
(/etc/changetrack.conf for the super-user)
.TP
.BI \-d "outputdirectory"
Store output in
.I outputdirectory
instead of in ~/.changetrack/
(/var/lib/changetrack/ for the super-user)
.TP
.BI \-e
Keep a copy of the file from when it was first added to the
.B changetrack
configuration, and keep
.B ed
-styled changes to rebuild the file.
.I This option is recommended only if
.BI rcs
.I does not work on the machine.
To recover using this means, the .ed file
should have the last several commands removed, to allow the file to be rebuilt
to the appropriate state. A command like 'cat myfile.ed | ed myfile.original'
should be executed.
.TP
.B \-r
Disable the 
.B rcs
facility.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode; only print critical messages. Good for scripts.
.TP
.BI \-m "message"
Print
.I message
on each file, after checking for any changes. Good for indicating reboots 
or other system events.
.TP
.BI \-M "message"
Like \-m, but message is only printed on modified files.
.TP
.BI \-v
Print version and exit.
.TP
.B \-u
Use unified diffs (this only works with some implementations of
.BI diff.
.TP
.BI \-o "emailaddress"
Mail output to emailaddress. This is supplementary to emails specified in the config file.
+ .TP
+ .BI \-f "emailaddress"
+ Set "From" header to emailaddress (which must be a valid).

.SH REQUIREMENTS
This program requires
.B diff.
Unless the
.B -r
switch is used, this program requires
.B rcs
to be installed. If the 
.B -e
switch is used,
.B ed
is required.
.SH FILES
.TP
~/.changetrackrc
List of files to monitor. Each line may start with '#' indicating a comment.
If a line is not a comment, it contains a file/pattern to monitor, and optionally
" : " followed by any email addresses to send changes to. The filename may
be a pattern described in the same way as for
.B ls.
Note: the default is 
.B /etc/changetrack.conf
for root.
.TP
~/.changetrack/
Default directory in which to store output information. The default is
.B /var/lib/changetrack/
for root. All
.B rcs
files are stored in this directory, unless a subdirectory called RCS 
exists, in which case the
.B rcs
files are stored in that directory.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Each filename is written to standard output.
.B rcs
will print errors if certain things go wrong. It will also print
a few lines each time
.B changetrack
is run after a new file is added to the configuration.
.SH IDENTIFICATION
Author: Cameron J. Morland.
.br
Manual Page Revision: 2.1 Release Date: 2001-03-06.
.br
Copyright \(co 2001-2005 Cameron J. Morland.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rcsintro(1), co(1)

.SH TODO
Automate removal of out-of-date changes, to save disk space and clarify
the important changes.

.SH BUGS
None known.

